if I'm doing something I'm doing it to
win it whatever winning it means and to
me I'm not going for silver like I'm not
going for bronze I'm not going for fifth
I'm not going for the experience I'm
doing it for the growth along the way
absolutely because I love growing as a
human being if I fall short it's not
going to be a failure everybody welcome
to impact Theory you're here my friends
because you believe that human potential
is nearly limitless but you know that
having potential is not the same as
actually doing something with it so our
goal with this show and company is to
introduce you to the people and ideas
that will help you actually execute on
your dreams all right today's guest is
arguably the greatest beach volleyball
player the world has ever seen
together with her longtime partner misty
may-treanor they absolutely dominated
the sport for more than a decade winning
21 consecutive Olympic matches in three
back-to-back gold medals losing only a
single set in their entire 11-year run
as teammates
she is one of only two people ever to be
a four-time All American volleyball
player and she has an Olympic bronze
medal to go through three golds making
her the single most decorated female
Olympic beach volleyball player ever not
bad considering she's played injured and
even pregnant her work ethic unending
drive and raw horsepower have made her
not only a fan favorite but someone who
has literally transcended the sport
she's been sponsored by some of the
biggest and most well respected
companies on the planet including
Lululemon pampers and the honest company
to name but a few and she's become a
household name not only for her
unprecedented string of victories but
for her infectious positive attitude
Grayson defeat and unyielding
determination even now as she's about to
turn 40 she continues to push the limits
of both herself and her sport and is
preparing to make a run at an
astonishing sixth Olympic appearance as
we head towards the 2020 Games in Tokyo
absolutely consumed by a desire to get
better every day despite six surgeries
on her shoulder and having appeared in
her first Olympics before many of her
fellow competitors were even born she
continues to be one of the most elite
athletes on the beach today and even
though she hasn't even retired yet she
recently launched a platform and
movement called p40
40 that is poised to revolutionize the
entire sport of beach volleyball so
please help me in welcoming the Stanford
grad mother of three and one of the
greatest athletes of our generation
regardless of the sport Kerri
walsh-jennings that's the perfect
reaction to that she's totally in coach
that's exactly it so good wow that's a
that is a lot and it was leaving things
out and I love that response and I've
seen you talk about that before where
it's like you'll hear something in an
interview something that you did and be
like that makes me want to go push
harder and how many more where does that
drive come from man well I feel like I'm
kind of preaching to the choir here with
you know self motivation and this the
intrinsic motivation I have to
experience my potential and keep you
know upping that and I just love what I
do and I love life and I feel like my
life is so damn simple with regard to
what I want you know I want great
relationships I want to kick ass in my
career and I want to stay connected to
my faith and within those three simple
things like I live this really profound
life and I don't want it to stop like I
don't care the obstacle like I've had a
lot of obstacles I had many more great
moments and obstacles but I'm just
hungry for more because I keep
growing you know you've talked about
finding your joy so how did you do that
because a lot of like one of the number
one questions I get asked is how to find
that how to find happiness how to find
passion yeah so how did you create that
find that I was born with it
I was certainly born with joy it was
bred into me by my parents and I grew up
in the most loving unconditionally
loving environment and supportive
environment possible truly my parents
are rock stars I have four siblings who
are incredible a million cousins and
aunts and I was just always taught like
and shown that life is meant to be lived
with joy you know when you're doing
something what's the point of doing it
if you're not going to win and B you're
not going to have fun you know and so I
just feel like it's a bit of nurture and
it's a bit of nature and I keep creating
and finding these environments
where that's a constant so it's one
thing to know it it's another thing to
actually cultivate it and create it in
your life in fact I have a quote from
you my weaknesses were exposed and it's
a gift and I thought wow that's like I
get it when you say that you were born
into joy and the family obviously did a
lot to make sure that they helped you
bring that out but that that goes beyond
just like life is good and goes to like
a really intense and seems cultivated
mindset so what's been your process to
get to the point where you can actually
say this sentence in all seriousness my
weaknesses were exposed and that's a
gift you know I I feel things very
deeply and like my experiences I don't
necessarily think really deeply about
experiences but I feel them and
I know that through every experience
whether it's good and I'm triumphant
triumphant or bad and I'm exposed
there's opportunity in every single
thing no matter what the face of it is
you know defeat or victory and I've had
just my life I've lived a lot of
contrast and by contrast that means
obstacles that means injuries that means
failures that means you know I have
heartbreak and within that having lived
it truly and like letting myself feel
exposed and vulnerable and letting
myself learn and be devastated I've
learned that there's positives
and it fortifies you for whatever's next
and there's always something that's next
you know I'm never gonna get to a place
and be like I'm here I'm done you know
light let's call it quits like I'm in it
for the long haul and I don't care it
I'm gonna be 90 years old on my way to
heaven still learning because that to me
is what life is about and so when I say
that my weaknesses were exposed and
there's strength in it it's I believe in
it with all my heart you know I like
when there's a high light on you and
it's the softest part of you and you're
therefore have to look at it and either
train it better or figure out why it's
weak or whatever it is if you take
advantage of that that's a beautiful
powerful thing yeah I really agree with
that and I don't know if you follow MMA
at all and I cannot believe I'm blanking
on her name
right now but she was crazy dominant she
had the armbar like she could just
armbar anybody to death basically and
she was undefeated forever ever ever and
was just amazing and then she lost in
spectacular fashion came back and then
lost again and then just disappeared and
everybody's like she's never gonna come
back from this and I don't know enough
about the situation to like give a
detailed account but from the outside
judging by what she said in interviews
it was an unwillingness to face that it
was entirely her fault yes that she just
there were skills that she never took
the time to develop to actually get good
at so knowing that I think that's a far
more typical way like looking at the
amount that you won the fact he lost one
set one set in 11 years is so crazy
Austrian sister but like that string of
success does not set you up to handle
failure well and yet in failure
you've been astonishing like I know you
deal with sports psychology a lot like
what how can you pass that on to anybody
watching right now like what's that how
did you process the failure I think it's
just accountability and ownership of
your part in any situation that is a
failure you know Matt myself on the
court I'm there to perform I'm there to
you know elevate my partner's play in
our team play and if I'm failing then am
I gonna blame her am I gonna blame the
Sun in my eyes like then I'm a victim
and then I have no power
same thing with relationships you know
Britt before you came on here I was tell
you about my husband we just got in a
fight and I always want to take
accountability of my you know and I
mean I love to cuss I'm so so crazy Joe
is the role model Goggins I can't wait
together oh he's that explosive
that was he is he swears a lot so you
are I know but there's something so pure
and true about it and I don't mean to
sound you know unintelligent and
ridiculous actually sounds really
interesting and I don't want to derail
you from your point but I will say that
that you saying there's something pure
and real like that's a part of your
personality hopefully we can really
explore in this interview because I find
it fascinating so I think of and I
really am derailing you from your point
please because I lost it already I think
of the mind is like a pachinko machine
have you ever seen the same drop a ball
or whatever and it bounces around so you
start with a negative idea whatever
that's gonna be and then you you create
all these points of positivity that that
negative thing bounces around and then
by the end it's turned into a positive
thought another way to think of it as
mental jujitsu so what I've seen now so
many interviews on you I have seen you
one of the most fascinating things is to
watch your talk about getting the bronze
evolved and how you talked about it in
the beginning versus how you talk about
it now it's pretty interesting
yeah and I feel working through it and
and I get that and I the ability to be
vulnerable and to always be looking for
the positive and something seems
incredibly wise is that is that
intentional for you man no I think it's
how I'm wired I think it's how I'm wired
to see the positive in any situation and
I think I've learned the hard way that
focusing on the negative is gonna keep
you there you know I'm a really big
believer in the law of attraction you
know what you focus on is what you're
gonna invite in your life and just this
past year I've had a since the bronze
medal I've been living in this kind of
really funky place of insecurity and
like am I gonna let that defy me
no and then defending myself
and it feels really weak and terrible to
me and I want to go to a place where I
can own that performance own that
beautiful bronze that is gonna serve me
for less of my life without feeling
defensive you know but it still hurts my
heart you know that I had that
performance and that my performance
affected other people you know that's
the bummer of everything so how do you
conceptualize the bronze as a part of a
journey and well can I bring you back to
why that like how that came to my life
life in my life so okay so I've been to
five Olympic Games four of those were
like the most glorious experiences ever
like where I was really excited about
every day and I was in everyday and
living in the relationships are so
important and valuable and you know just
in it and smelling the roses along the
way and like living the defeats but
owning it and learning growing there was
one Olympic experience which was on the
way to Beijing misty and I were going to
try to repeat and never been done in our
sport you know the repeated gold medal
so exciting and I was only focused on
go metal and so day one of the
quadrennial four years out from the
Beijing Olympics
I was only focused on four years from
them and I literally could not be happy
I could not connect with my
relationships and I was so focused on
the end result that I had a miserable
four years there was some joy in it cuz
we were winning a shit-ton and we were
growing in the job of it was really fun
but I totally totally lost connection
with my husband my friends who I loved
and I would travel around the world for
two months in a row and I would you know
write them letters and be connecting
like I felt connected to them but I was
so detached from them and so having
lived that experience to Tokyo having
won gold the moments at over after the
celebrations over I'm literally
miserable and empty and my my husband
and I are hanging out in the hotel room
and we are so disconnected and we are on
this way down that was so sad and so
ugly all because I was only focused on
the end result and because and it was
hard for me to accept this because my
people are sacred to me and I honor them
and I carry them with me wherever I go
that allows me to play free and be free
in my dreams and in my ventures but it
was hard for me to be like man I
blew this like I Casey I know how much
you love me but I totally took of you
for granted you know and so that was one
experience that changed me forever and I
will never ever live for the end-result
anymore you know so fast-forward to to
Rio and having won bronze it was a rad
you know three years with April and it
was so fun and there were so much great
stuff going on and having you know
suffered a bad defeat and had it had a
terrible performance on the world's
biggest stage on the way to go to the
gold medal and losing that in retrospect
I see why that happened you know I kind
of created these monsters and things in
my head that you know when you're
feeling vulnerable if you're feeling
vulnerable and you've kind of created
these monsters the monsters gonna get
bigger and then crunch time you know and
so I don't know if that makes sense but
I was so committed to living the journey
in arena Rio I lived the journey
I got a bronze devastation but there's
so much beauty in that and that will
always triumph that trumps that one
defeat you know and that will serve me
kind of moving forwards if I and
result focus is it's great to have goals
I need
I need little goals on the way to big
goals but to only be focused on the big
wall at the end you're just gonna lose
out in life how do you find that balance
though so you said that you you felt
like you're appreciated the choir with
me about intrinsic motivation and I I
really think it comes down to success at
a high level demands a price and it's
just a question of whether you're gonna
pay that price or not now there are ways
you can structure your life like Lisa
and I build the company together but
that's not easy like how do you and now
as you focus on twenty twenty twenty
which seems and correct me if I'm wrong
it seems like you you want to go out
back on top you want to get a goal so
how do you avoid becoming overly
obsessed and still make it worth going
after like if it's just the journey is
that the right part of the journey or is
it like really owning the gold is the
point here the gold is the goal so I
also want to win a gold medal every
single way every single day on the way
to winning a gold medal in Tokyo you
know and I feel like I didn't do that in
Rio like I feel like my heart was in it
but I compromised a lot on certain
things and certain parts of my
relationship with my partner and in one
thing get hot and heavy if you're not
fortified together and totally aligned
shit's gonna happen you know and I take
full ownership of that and I learned
from that I'm gonna live that on the way
to Tokyo and if I'm doing something I'm
doing it to win it whatever winning it
means and to me I'm not going for silver
like I'm not going for bronze I'm not
going for fifth I'm not going for the
experience I'm doing it for the growth
along the way absolutely because I love
growing as a human being and the
relationships that I have that just get
deeper and richer and my life is so
beautiful because of the journey to the
games if I fall short it's not going to
be a failure
you know I'm not gonna talk like that
like if like that I just want to
talk I don't like talking about losing
it's part of my job is to handle the
losses and talking one of the points of
contention with Mike Gervais and I am i
support psychologist he's like you got
to talk about losing like what if it
happens like you need to be prepared for
that I'm like that like I've lost
too much in my career I know what that's
like it's not life or death you know I
almost lost my marriage that's a hundred
million times worse I've lost love
in my life that's a billion times worse
this is just a game that fills me up so
much that matters to me so much that's
willing to risk and suffer the
heartbreak if that happens you know
and again those losses and that exposure
through losses like I it said every
single day but it's so true like you
just learned so much more winning and
you know winning like covers up a lot of
you know and only like writing like
in a feathered nest and perfect it's
like it's beautiful I'm sorry for that I
will never say like no I don't want the
easy path like but I want to earn it and
grow through it and that generally comes
through the challenging times you know
you know that very well
yeah it's so now we're to that part of
your personality that I hope we'd really
get to one of the things that listening
to you talk now it is so fascinating the
level you're not trying to clean it up
you're not trying to make it seem like
something that it's not and this is
where I get frustrated with people
especially that now in the social
influence game like they want to make it
seem like it's really clean and my thing
is if you want to be successful we have
to hold to competing ideas in your head
at the same time and if you can
understand I want to win the
gold I'm showing up for that reason and
that reason only but what I'm really
here for is the journey like they're
both equally true Sabah and you have to
know when to lean on one and when to
lean on the other yeah well I've got
this place in my life where people say
like you know what are one of the
biggest lessons you've learned and to me
it's like not to compare myself to
others because that's just a recipe for
failure right I'm never gonna be you and
never gonna be as articulate or passion
there to convey myself like you do I'm
never gonna have misty Mays hand or her
ball control and I for so long I
compared myself against the greats I
mean like I'm falling short like I
need to become them to become great
which is just you know and once
I stopped you know honestly comparing
myself and owning myself and being
inspired by them and stealing all the
best parts of them and making my own
like that is so much more powerful you
know and so I want to do that for the
rest of my life and I I'm not a literal
person you know like I think there's all
shades of grey and life as a
rainbow and it's not black and white and
thank God because I am like an
in-the-moment person that I could
dick myself from one to the next but I'm
not bullshitting I get some my truth and
this is my experience and I believe that
we're always in flux and we're always
expanding you know so please take me
with a grain of salt but know that I
mean my you know it's like this
weird like there's so many that I caught
a museum II and I feel like sometimes
I'm nonsensical but I know what the
I want and I Know Who I am and I know
that what I want is gonna help me become
more of a of what I am
well it's interesting so I see very
differently than I think you see
yourself and that moment that we just
went through is really surreal for me
because Liz it I want you to imagine for
can you feel the insecurity yes just
working through which is absolutely
incredible and I already know the
comments we're gonna get on this you're
gonna change people's lives the way that
you are because what they're gonna hear
is I want you to hear what I heard
because it's what they're hearing
they're literally listening to Michael
Jordan say how I'm never gonna be
as good as Scotty as this and you know
I'm never gonna be as good as you know
god I can't Charles Barkley at that like
that that is so surreal like I get it I
understand it like that's humans that's
human nature we all go through that but
like writing your intro and realizing
like you haven't won by a little you've
completely dominated the sport and like
at some point every athlete like comes
to a change in their career where
they're not a player anymore maybe
they're a coach or like what you're
doing building up the entire industry
that's just the nature of the human body
at this point in our evolution right
like yeah it does unfortunately have a
shelf life and so for you to to still
have those super like watching you makes
you so accessible because you have the
same vulnerabilities and insecurities
that we all have but the part of your
personality that is so special is your
willingness to share it and I remember
the first time I was watching an
interview and you talked about what you
and your husband went through and I was
like Jesus like it was so real and there
was like there was no filter and I was
so grateful for it I take great pride in
that like I take great pride in the fact
that my husband might have literally
been in hell together and we survived it
and we worked our asses off on you know
as ourselves individually and
collectively and yeah I don't
I don't know I I'm really sick of being
insecure I'm sick of like I want
to I want to turn this corner because I
I believe I'm enough and I believe that
everything I have that I need for life
to make all my dreams come true I know
it's already inside of me and this
mental and emotional side of what I'm
going through ever since bronze and
there's like kind of up two years
since then it's been gnarly you know and
so I'm trying to get my footing in an
honest way and I'm really trying to like
focus on the positives but in the past
year I think I was gonna say this before
like I've been called out by two people
I loved so much by being a liar
by how I live my life because I'm too
positive and they're like you need to be
more honest with yourself and we're
honest with the public and I'm like what
the do you mean like I'm totally
honest and they're like well not
everything can be okay all the time and
I'm like if you think everything's okay
all the time with me what are you like
what do you mean like so you resent me
or think I'm being dishonest because I
put a positive perspective on things
like that's so unfair to me but but it
caused me to look in the mirror and be
like carry like are you full of you
know like are you really proud of that
bronze are you really in this for the
journey are you no are you walking your
talk and it's part of this kind of like
weird shifting stands that I'm in where
I have so much security and so much
confidence saying that's that's
who I am I know that's who I am but also
being like I need to do better and
I need to like grow from this and become
more because it's feeling a little
shallow right now even though I feel
this so deeply does that make sense well
I'm gonna push you on it a little bit so
when you say that it feels shallow it
feels shallow because that's what other
people that you trust are reflecting to
you or at you actually do feel like
there's something deeper you can get to
and you just don't have the words for it
I think I can go deeper and I certainly
don't have the words for it yet I think
I need to go deeper by experience you
know I think after Rio winning that
bronze I need to go and experience more
competing more life so I know that I'm
still what I hope to be which is about
us you know and I haven't really had
that chance
but I think also like like my talking
points and the way I don't have talking
points but I sometimes I feel like a
soundbite and I don't want to be
a sound by it like I want to be a human
being and I really am and but I need to
like change what I'm speaking because
it's not resonating as deeply anymore
and yet it's the only truth I know right
now you know I'm saying like I'm a
podcast junkie I listen do you
all the time I listen Mike Gervais Tim
Ferriss like I listened to amazing
people and I'm really I'm really trying
to work on my vocabulary because again I
do feel so deeply but my language is
pretty surfacey and I feel like life is
so simple and that's the beauty in it
but there's so much profound things to
express and experience within the
simplicity that I don't really know how
to articulate you know and I have really
hard moments and yet my face on
social media is rainbows and sunshine
because that's what I want to give to
the world I'm not saying I you know I
don't have issues in life I have plenty
of them hard ones yeah I think the only
logical place to go at this point is to
dive into Bruce Lee to me the things
that you say and I I want to fully
acknowledge your saying it doesn't feel
right anymore and hey fair enough but
from the outside like I would literally
point people at you and say do that like
do the the raw vulnerability talk about
things that are wrong like it is never
once struck me and the hours of footage
that I've seen on you it's never once
struck me that you're trying to hide or
pretend but there is as Bruce Lee has
taught us there is a lot of power in
ownership owning your mistakes spinning
it seeing how it's not a limit it's a
plateau you can pursue that plateau if
you hold yourself accountable to that I
mean the whole book I don't know if
you've read it but the the Dow of jeet
kune do-- which is his book about
martial arts and and what he went
through with the motorcycle accident and
how everybody told me is never gonna
walk again and if he walked he would
never do martial arts and yet everything
that we know about Bruce Lee was after
all of that and so it's like when people
allow themselves to to overly focus on
the things that are wrong and that there
is bad stuff in the world and all that
and all that's true but it doesn't serve
you so my thing is like start with your
goal what's your goal and work
backwards and so one that's on my list
of things to talk to you about so I know
that you just said I need to have small
goals that lead to a big goal and I
don't yet see and if you can help me
understand I don't see how overly
focusing on how things really are bad
would serve you in getting your goals it
doesn't I don't think it serves me at
all like I think it's just an experience
to experience when bad things show up
but I don't want to focus on it I want
to learn from it and move on
like I'm not afraid of my dark side I'm
not afraid of my mistakes they still
hurt me you know they drive me but I'm
not a believer in that like it's a
choice to be positive and you
know some days it's easier than others
and it's a and but it you know it's just
if I can be cynical and negative or
positive and optimistic about the future
like I know what I'm going to choose
every single time and doesn't call it
doesn't mean it's I couldn't
agree with you more and how often do you
use sounding boards whether it's a
psychologist or just friends how much is
internal how much is external I'm a
yapper oh you know and I I don't have a
ton of friends but I have a really
amazing group of core friends and I use
them I first sure use them and that's
something that I had to grow into um
certainly you know growing up I was
taught to not complain you know just do
your and I make no excuses and you
know take care of yourself and I think
it's a beautiful way to grow up but it
really scared me from raising my hand in
life and now that I've gone through life
and I'm a mother and I have three kids
and a husband and I have all these
things I'm doing I know that you have to
raise your hand and ask for help and I
know that there's so much wisdom in
other people that you allowed them to
bring to the table so I used my sounding
boards I'm so grateful for them I'm
never the smartest one in the room I'm
never the one who knows the most
about anything
and so it's a beautiful thing in my life
to have people that I trust that are
like-minded and the fact that we don't
really believe in shelf lives I believe
that things are gonna shift I don't want
to be a competitive athlete forever
but I believe my body can keep getting
better in a lot of great ways and I
believe myself as a whole human can keep
any better in a lot of ways them and my
people believe that too
so on my tough days of my days where I'm
feeling insecure or whatever it is I
look to you I look to them
to my best friends and they all kind of
get me a repointed where I want to go
love that I want to go back to what you
were saying about your kids and how you
grew up so when you say that I get super
inspired right that I unfortunately I
wasn't taught to like be hardcore and
dig in and so I had to learn that lesson
much later in life what do you plan to
teach your kids like whether or not cuz
I know that the question get asked all
the time is you know are your kids
athletic are they gonna you know go on
to be champions like you and your
husband to both professional volleyball
players so but how do you I have back up
I have a hypothesis to create somebody
that good you have to find a way to put
a chip on their shoulder and as a parent
I don't know that I could do it which is
one of the reasons I don't have kids
because I want that level of success for
them but I knowing what it takes what I
fear it takes requires like a little bit
of like the hard edge to figure it out
letting them fall the life does that
anyway right it's not my job I think to
create that chip like I don't want
resentment for my kids and I don't think
that's what you're saying but like I my
kids more teach me than I teach them you
know I remind them to be respectful I
remind them to be kind the way they
speak I remind them that if they signed
up for something they have to finish it
and have to do it right like I feel like
that's my job is to guide them in that
way but my kids on the flip side of it
are reminding me to be playful and to
have fun in life and a smile and
to engage and be curious about learning
about new stuff of myself you know and
that to me is way more powerful is gonna
serve me way better in life than the
flip side of it but my kids are rad and
they're good human beings their souls
they're so wise and I just don't want to
get in the way you know I don't want to
teach through words because my words are
imperfect and we all have our different
definitions of certain words and
vocabulary I want to teach their example
through the good in the bad and my
husband and I are pretty transparent
with our with our kids you know when we
fail we fail in front of them when we
fight we argue in front of them which I
don't know if that's the best but they
see us and sometimes I see them looking
like you guys gonna make it through this
you know and it kind of brings us back
to what's important but the
accountability that my kids have given
me is beautiful and then I'm just trying
to you know
to bring out the lions and the kings and
queens instead of them that's cool it's
cool way to say it so what is the
example that you hope that you're
setting for them like what are like
three or four key attributes that you
want them to embody themselves man I
think leaving with love I think is a
really beautiful thing love for yourself
first and foremost and love for what
you're doing like you're never a victim
in life I don't I really don't believe
that regardless of circumstance you can
choose to not be a victim and I would
like to be an example of that being kind
is never out of fashion and it's never
going to lead you astray personal
accountability is huge I mean my parents
were really like if you're gonna do
something do it the right way never make
excuses and if I can do it with a smile
like those are the three things in my
life that my parents told me and they
modeled that for me and if I could just
hit on those three things with my kids I
think they'd be very successful why do
you think it's so important not to make
excuses what's the point like
again it's kind of bringing me it keeps
you there and it keeps you weak and soft
you know if you own it then you're gonna
transform that whatever weakness excuse
whatever into something powerful but if
you make an excuse for it you're just
kind of accepting failure to me you're
not owning it I hear that so I want to
go back to Bruce Leakes I never asked
what is it about Bruce Lee that you are
so drawn to you tweet that guy out like
almost every day are you I do I think
just the essence of him is just so
beautiful and powerful to me like he was
just he seemed to be so like an apology
an apologetic Lee himself and therefore
unfuck with a bull which is like what I
aspire to be in life unconditional in
his values and his principles I just
really like what he stood for you know
and I think he is timeless
I just appreciate the essence of him
because he was entirely human you know
he's kind of like what Michael make what
made Michael Jordan so incredible is the
Michael Jordan assem
you know his skills were incredible but
his heart his soul is it
he is untouchable with regard to the
greats in any sport I believe and I
would put Bruce Lee in that category I
would put Muhammad Ali in that category
because it's there something in essence
of them that transcends everything and
they lived it well let's talk about that
essence so it's something that I find
very very interesting
I have Jordan hanging above my fireplace
I don't follow sports at all so when I
say that that is there not as a
reference to sports whatsoever it is to
me a nod I don't want to give you my
answer I want to hear like what is what
to you is the essence of Jordan like
what made him the greatest of all time
to me he showed up every single day with
all of himself all themselves and the
essence of Jordan was that he his soul
was on display like his vulnerabilities
his insecurities his power were
on display every single day I love that
when he got inducted to the Hall of Fame
he called out all the haters and he
called out his losses and I think that's
so beautiful
because I know that he was so largely
confident in his life but I know those
haters tapped into the softest
part of him and made him say what if
they're right on his weakest moments I
know he had moments of that like
what if they're right what if I'm not as
good as my stats show or whatever it is
and I know that allowed they allowed
that to fuel him and I love that he just
owned it all he had no apologies
that's beautiful and he wasn't a dick
like he was so confident in cocky but I
totally tolerable for me because he
lived it you know I'm saying current
some athletes where I'm like ah it's a
bit much
you know like but because he was so
authentic do you know what I mean like
Steph Curry to me the kid can do no
wrong because he just owns it
and he's being true to himself and
that's really beautiful he's consistent
you know the Masters are consistent and
the consistent at the highest level and
it's not just about the performance it's
about what like the power behind the
performance which to me is a soulful
spiritual thing it's funny that you
ended on that as well because you said
it in the middle the power his power was
on display and it gave me the chills but
he gave me the chills not because of
Jordan gave me the chills because a you
and your your wedding ring says six feet
of sunshine which i think is very cool
but the part that I'm responding to is a
six feet which by the way I'm gonna
challenge it's two in a bit like we said
[Laughter]
six two in a bit exactly there you go
that that I'll believe that and you a
lot of tall women try to look shorter
and you definitely do not do that and
you play with authority and you play
with power and I think that somebody who
wants to live as an example I think
you're such an incredible example of
what power looks like in a woman and it
it is aggressive it is dominant it is
forceful it it's no apologies and what
what does that word power mean to you
like how much how important is that to
you to pass on to your daughter
um power to me is almost a dirty word
because that's not what I'm after
I love powerful like I love that thought
and the gravity behind that but man
I just I think there's so much beauty in
authentic leadership and when people
show up again and with that essence
which I don't have more words to go more
depth with you I would love to hear your
words about Michael Jordan and what made
him great in his power but you know I
just think power comes from living
authentically and being where you're at
and always striving for more and when I
feel most powerful I will be smiling and
I will be going through the for your
throat with the sharpest knife I have
and I will be having so much fun and
respecting you at the same time you know
like that to me is beautiful like my
ultimate like the way I can respect my
competitors most is to try to
crush them because I honor them like
make me better bring good what do you
got I'm gonna make you better you know
and that to me is a beautiful thing in
life you know me showing up with all of
me feeling insecure like rambling not
knowing I'm staying with you like that's
there's what I got right now but I'm
gonna give you everything I got you know
some days it's cleaner than others but I
think that's the fun part of life and
for my daughter I just want her to be
herself which she owns herself so much
and I never want to change that same
thing refer my boys that's really
interesting
especially as it relates to finding ones
you know power powerful as you said
that's really interesting so my
breakdown at Michael Jordan I'll just
steal straight from Tim Grover who was
his strength and strength and
conditioning coach and he said Michael
Jordan has darkness and inside of him is
a need to win that is so crushing that
he'll do what ever it takes he will
suffer anything he will pay any price to
be great and I'll say he'll pay any
price within his code of ethics I think
it's always important to say that
because for me that is the truth I will
pay any price within my code of ethics
to get what I want and so I'm not gonna
step on people backstab lie or anything
like that but beyond that I will take
myself to my physical limits to my
emotional limits and beyond and that to
me is the joy and I think that's why I
resonate with you it's like you you can
say in like the sweetest way possible
I'm coming for your throat yes I have
like I love that so much and wish I
could talk duper but the thing is I
totally get it and that's the fun right
like you you want to play at the highest
level and you want them to show up and
play at their highest level and I'm
going to guess that it would hold no joy
for you whatsoever if they let you win
I'd be insecure I heard this in a
podcast this top performer total wolf
like mercedes-benz driver
I think formula 1 but maybe not that he
was like I'm I'm always skeptical of my
success and that resonated so deeply
with me and I think that's probably the
dark side of Jordan or you have to keep
yeah this desire to prove and
prove and prove not to the world like
love you all but you and this is
about me knowing that I'm good enough
and I'm capable and having not sit well
with me like it's amazing to be loved by
so many like I'm so grateful to have the
support that I have but sometimes it
makes me insecure because it doesn't I'm
like I don't deserve that like I need to
keep proving myself and I think proving
that statement like I don't want to have
to prove myself
I just want it to feel good within me
you know job well done is a job that
feels good when you're done doing it you
know regardless of the outcome
so yeah I will have Darkseid's I love
that that yeah that was incredible and
and I really agree about I don't want to
live there
whether it's insecurities whether it's
aggression I don't want to live with
either of those things but they are
incredibly powerful tools and I'm
certainly not afraid to look at them to
see what they can teach me about myself
how can they help me improve my skills
so that I can get better and push
forward at all sure yeah so you've been
an incredibly adaptive player and you've
talked about how my body's changed is
still there for me I really believe I
can do this
and most importantly even though there
are your words a lot of miles on my body
I've gained a lot of wisdom in that
process so what does this phase of your
career look like and what is so
important to you about P 1440 and what's
the plan moving forward well you know
this next phase so I'm on a parallel
path like I am on the path to Tokyo 2020
I went in gold I'm not even gonna say
ideally the plan is to qualify the plan
is to win and have a ton of fun
along the way the other path that I'm on
is to you know revolutionize and
repackage the way our sport is brought
to market beach-volleyball it's
incredible and so I want to do both
those simultaneously and I want to stay
connected to my nearest and dearest
because I never want to experience what
I experienced before which is losing
touch with that which matters most with
Ehrman people so those are three pretty
big things you know and there's
a lot of scariness you know where I'm an
entrepreneur now like I'm trying to
build this stuff and I'm also want to
live in my power and be better than ever
as I compete and I don't know how I'm
gonna do all this but I know that I'm
gonna work my ass off I know I'm gonna
surround myself by people who know what
they're doing and who can elevate me and
I know that I'm willing to do what it
takes I'm not willing to
sacrifice my family you know like I I
don't really believe in sacrifice in my
life because everything is a choice the
one thing that comes closest to that is
my family time you know like I I'm away
a lot and I'm chasing dreams and I'm
doing a lot of phone calls and I'm doing
this and that feels like a
sacrifice but the other day I sat down
with my boy and I'm like babe do you
know why I'm doing this like I want you
to know like
when you're building something and
chasing big dream like it's not always
gonna be fun and playful and you know I
can't always do everything that I want
to do but you are always there and I'm
trying to explain to him like kind of
the give-and-take of life and taking the
good with the challenging but me on
this next journey like I I love my
sports so much and I want to leave it
better you know when I check out the one
I came in and if I were to leave today I
couldn't say that like the top level the
sport is it's not good it's shanty like
the kids are it's a hobby it's really
sad but underneath the top it's the most
amazing gangbusters there's a
millions and millions and millions
almost you know 900 million people
around the globe play volleyball that's
incredible 25 to 40 million in the US
play volleyball like we are not a niche
sport we are ginormous but at the top
we're niche so we need to flip out on
this edge and in order to do that we're
creating this platform P 1440 and we're
gonna like everything that makes the
beach pilot viable lifestyle so
incredible everything that the athletes
do to live an optimal life with regard
to health and wellness personal
development you know the music the
entertainment the way they educate
themselves we're gonna have on on our
event sites and then on our technology
platform because we want to scale we
want people in Brazil to hang
out with us every single day we're a
go-to resource for them to develop
themselves and so selfishly it's a way
for me to grow my sport it's a way to
for me to keep evolving and learning and
growing and to give back to the world
that which I'm so fortunate to have
which is experts on call and how are you
learning because being an entrepreneur
is is new for you so what are you
applying to how you learned volleyball
to being an entrepreneur man I I feel
like an idiot every single day you know
I'm man I I'm just everything that I've
learned from being a mommy and an
athlete being nimble being adaptive you
know teamwork communication perseverance
being gritty for what you love
taking the good with a bad like all of
these things are serving me very well
always focusing on what I want not
necessarily on the tough reality that is
I'm a big believer in workarounds you
know in my professional career I've only
had to play with my left shoulder for a
lot of tournaments you know there's
always
there's always a way and so I'm bringing
that entire mindset to what we're doing
on P 1440 and it feels really incredible
the people were doing it with it's the
most special part and the people were
doing a4 which is the current situation
and players and athletes and beach
volleyball in the next generations like
my children that you know fortifies me
every single day and the 1440 I know you
know this but there's 1440 minutes in
the day right and I waste a lot of those
minutes I have it on my necklace it's a
constant reminder of how I want to live
my life so that's the filter through
which we're going to create everything
on our platform and on site like we
don't want to waste people's times we
want to help you cut through the clutter
we want to give you a sensory experience
we want to allow you the chance to get
dirty with us and to take go away
practical takeaways that you can
implement to your life you know it's
amazing to read it's amazing to listen
but to experience and touch and feel and
do like that turns into wisdom real fast
I love that all right before I ask my
last question working these guys find
you online I think at Cara Lee Walsh on
most things social yeah yeah you're
incredible
I'm sweating it's crazy I feel like
I have so much to talk about and this
was so fun and so gnarly at the same
time just a little micro zoom of life
right here no it was amazing thank you
for having me thank you for being trying
to stall I think for the last question
well here it is
not that you don't know but what is the
impact that you want to have on the
world so I think my impact is that I
certainly want to leave this world a
better place and I want to inspire the
world to own their lives like literally
take accountability for your life create
it it's theirs it's only yours to create
you know everyone else don't be
selfish don't be rude don't be evil but
if you create your life the way you want
it it's only going to be positive for
the people that you love so I think
accountability autonomy and to live the
1440 every day that's what I hope to
inspire and that's what I hope to live
yeah Gary thank you so much coming on
the show is incredible
guys literally you were looking at
somebody who in their sport in every way
shape and form matches Michael Jordan I
actually considered putting that in the
intro and I thought she would have a
seizure so I didn't but this is what a
living legend looks like she has been so
dominant in her sport you can't even
imagine it is unparalleled it's absolute
insanity and when you see that this is
somebody that has insecurities when you
see that this is somebody who wants to
be a great mommy when you see that this
is somebody who's trying to be a great
wife when you see that this is somebody
that's going through all the same things
you're going through the greatest legacy
she could ever hope to have she already
has in my opinion and that is to show
somebody what greatness really looks
like it is not sanitary it is hard as
hell it is messy it's a grind
it's a joy it's beautiful it's
unlike anything else to hold yourself to
a standard that makes everyone else
think you're absurd and then come back
again and again and again and defy all
expectation and believability it is
breathtaking to witness it was an honor
to have you here and to me the very
point of life is to see how much of your
potential you can actually actuate and
use and do something with and she
exemplifies that better than most any
human I've ever come across in my life
so I hope that you guys enjoy this
episode as much as I did and if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe and
until next time my friends be legendary
take care everybody thank you so much
for watching and being a part of this
community if you haven't already be sure
to subscribe you're gonna get weekly
videos on building a growth mindset
cultivating grit and unlocking your full
potential